- [Instructor] Our next language is going to be Java.
We're going to jump right into our IDE
to take a look at Azure Functions using this language.
So within my IDE,
once again we're going to go to the Azure extension.
We're going to create a new one.
We'll select the folder that I'm in.
I'm going to choose Java as the language.
I'm going to use Java 11 Preview.
And now I'm going to put in the group name for Maven
and I'm going to call this com.frankmoley.lil.azurefx
and we will leave the project name as java-functions.
We'll leave the snapshot version
and we'll leave the base package.
We're going to go ahead and accept the default
for the app name.
Now, this is going to take a little bit
so be patient while the archetype runs.
So now that that's run,
let's jump over into our code itself.
The first thing that we're going to do
is open up src, test,
and we're going to delete our two test files for right now.
Obviously, in the real world,
you're not going to want to delete your test files
but they're going to cause a lot of noise
with the way that the archetype builds
and it's outside the scope of this course.
So let's go into our base package.
Let's create a new file called Payload.java.
We'll go ahead and set the package here
to com.frankmoley
and we're going to create a class
called Payload and then we'll implement Serializable.
Now, we're going to need a couple elements in here.
So the first thing that we're going to do
is a String called message.
And the second one will be an int called count.
And now we're going to set getters and setters for this.
All right, now that we've got our getters and setters,
let's go into our function itself.
We're going to make a few changes
to the default function that comes across
from the archetype.
First thing I'm going to do is get rid
of some of these comments.
We'll name our function JavaDemo.
Now, I want to get rid of the get here.
And just leave POST.
And then I also want to change the HttpRequestMessage payload
to go from a String to be Payload.
All right, so let's get rid of lines 25 through 27 here.
So now we're going to do a final Payload payload
equals request.getBody.get
and that'll get us around the optional.
And I also want to create a list of Payload objects.
We'll just call this response.
Create a new ArrayList from that.
And now we'll do a simple for loop here.
All right, so now within that array,
we are going to create
a new instance.
Now, the reason that we're doing this
is we're going to actually use the same object
on the inbound and the outbound
because they look so similar
for what we're doing.
In the real world, you would never do this.
You would have a model coming in
and a formal response coming out.
But for these purposes,
it will work because what I want to show you
is how to actually return an array
of elements and have it formatted to JSON
because that's the most important part of this.
So let's go ahead and populate this object.
So we will simply set the count equal
to the current iteration.
And we will set the message
equal to the message from our payload.
And then, of course, we need to set our response.add
equal to our response element.
So now we can go ahead and delete line 34.
And we'll delete everything below this return statement.
Now, we're going to set our ResponseBuilder.
We'll set the status to OK.
Now, for our body, since it takes an object,
we're simply going to send back our response element.
So now we'll get payload in
and that payload will be in the form of JSON
and we'll spit out JSON.
Now, there's one more thing that we need to do
because Visual Studio Code
doesn't automatically import these.
We need to go import java.util.list
and import java.util.ArrayList.
And now we can run our function.
Now, it may take a little bit to get to this point
but once you have a build success
that's actually built,
so now you can go into your Azure extension,
go to your read-only functions,
right click and Execute Function Now.
So we will put in here a message.
Hello from Java
and we will send a count of five.
And we'll hit Enter.
I'm going to get rid of some of these popups here
but you'll see that we did get a response body out.
And that response body has the count,
which is the counter, the number of times we ran it,
as well as the element itself.
So that's what we would expect to see
by passing in a value of five, we got five out.
Again, it's a zero-based array.
We could have modified that
but for the purpose of this, we've done just fine.
So in our next video,
we're going to upload this to Azure
and run it as a true Azure function within that ecosystem.